protobuf/objectivec/README.md, before:

Protocol Buffers - Google's data interchange format
===================================================

[![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_cocoapods_integration.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_cocoapods_integration%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_ios_debug.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_ios_debug%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_ios_release.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_ios_release%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_osx.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_osx%2Fcontinuous)

Copyright 2008 Google Inc.

This directory contains the Objective C Protocol Buffers runtime library.

Requirements
------------

The Objective C implementation requires:

- Objective C 2.0 Runtime (32bit & 64bit iOS, 64bit OS X).
- Xcode 8.0 (or later).
- The library code does *not* use ARC (for performance reasons), but it all can
  be called from ARC code.

Installation
------------

The distribution pulled from github includes the sources for both the
compiler (protoc) and the runtime (this directory). After cloning the distribution
and needed submodules ([see the src directory's README](../src/README.md)),
to build the compiler and run the runtime tests, you can use:

     $ objectivec/DevTools/full_mac_build.sh

This will generate the `src/protoc` binary.

Building
--------

There are two ways to include the Runtime sources in your project:

Add `objectivec/*.h`, `objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.h`, and
`objectivec/GPBProtocolBuffers.m` to your project.

*or*

Add `objectivec/*.h`, `objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.h`,
`objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.m`, and `objectivec/*.m` except for
`objectivec/GPBProtocolBuffers.m` to your project.


If the target is using ARC, remember to turn off ARC (`-fno-objc-arc`) for the
`.m` files.

The files generated by `protoc` for the `*.proto` files (`*.pbobjc.h` and
`*.pbobjc.m`) are then also added to the target.

Usage
-----

The objects generated for messages should work like any other Objective C
object. They are mutable objects, but if you don't change them, they are safe
to share between threads (similar to passing an NSMutableDictionary between
threads/queues; as long as no one mutates it, things are fine).

There are a few behaviors worth calling out:

A property that is type NSString\* will never return nil. If the value is
unset, it will return an empty string (@""). This is inpart to align things
with the Protocol Buffers spec which says the default for strings is an empty
string, but also so you can always safely pass them to isEqual:/compare:, etc.
and have deterministic results.

A property that is type NSData\* also won't return nil, it will return an empty
data ([NSData data]). The reasoning is the same as for NSString not returning
nil.

A property that is another GPBMessage class also will not return nil. If the
field wasn't already set, you will get a instance of the correct class. This
instance will be a temporary instance unless you mutate it, at which point it
will be attached to its parent object. We call this pattern *autocreators*.
Similar to NSString and NSData properties it makes things a little safer when
using them with isEqual:/etc.; but more importantly, this allows you to write
code that uses Objective C's property dot notation to walk into nested objects
and access and/or assign things without having to check that they are not nil
and create them each step along the way. You can write this:

```
- (void)updateRecord:(MyMessage *)msg {
  ...
  // Note: You don't have to check subMessage and otherMessage for nil and
  // alloc/init/assign them back along the way.
  msg.subMessage.otherMessage.lastName = @"Smith";
  ...
}
```

If you want to check if a GPBMessage property is present, there is always as
`has\[NAME\]` property to go with the main property to check if it is set.

A property that is of an Array or Dictionary type also provides *autocreator*
behavior and will never return nil. This provides all the same benefits you
see for the message properties. Again, you can write:

```
- (void)updateRecord:(MyMessage *)msg {
  ...
  // Note: Just like above, you don't have to check subMessage and otherMessage
  // for nil and alloc/init/assign them back along the way. You also don't have
  // to create the siblingsArray, you can safely just append to it.
  [msg.subMessage.otherMessage.siblingsArray addObject:@"Pat"];
  ...
}
```

If you are inspecting a message you got from some other place (server, disk,
etc), you may want to check if the Array or Dictionary has entries without
causing it to be created for you. For this, there is always a `\[NAME\]_Count`
property also provided that can return zero or the real count, but won't trigger
the creation.

For primitive type fields (ints, floats, bools, enum) in messages defined in a
`.proto` file that use *proto2* syntax there are conceptual differences between
having an *explicit* and *default* value. You can always get the value of the
property. In the case that it hasn't been set you will get the default. In
cases where you need to know whether it was set explicitly or you are just
getting the default, you can use the `has\[NAME\]` property. If the value has
been set, and you want to clear it, you can set the `has\[NAME\]` to `NO`.
*proto3* syntax messages do away with this concept, thus the default values are
never included when the message is encoded.

The Objective C classes/enums can be used from Swift code.

Objective C Generator Proto File Options
----------------------------------------

**objc_class_prefix=\<prefix\>** (no default)

Since Objective C uses a global namespace for all of its classes, there can
be collisions. This option provides a prefix that will be added to the Enums
and Objects (for messages) generated from the proto. Convention is to base
the prefix on the package the proto is in.

Objective C Generator `protoc` Options
--------------------------------------

When generating Objective C code, `protoc` supports a `--objc_opt` argument; the
argument is comma-delimited name/value pairs (_key=value,key2=value2_). The
_keys_ are used to change the behavior during generation. The currently
supported keys are:

  * `generate_for_named_framework`: The `value` used for this key will be used
    when generating the `#import` statements in the generated code.  Instead
    of being plain `#import "some/path/file.pbobjc.h"` lines, they will be
    framework based, i.e. - `#import <VALUE/file.pbobjc.h>`.

    _NOTE:_ If this is used with `named_framework_to_proto_path_mappings_path`,
    then this is effectively the _default_ to use for everything that wasn't
    mapped by the other.

  * `named_framework_to_proto_path_mappings_path`: The `value` used for this key
    is a path to a file containing the listing of framework names and proto
    files. The generator uses this to decide if another proto file referenced
    should use a framework style import vs. a user level import
    (`#import <FRAMEWORK/file.pbobjc.h>` vs `#import "dir/file.pbobjc.h"`).

    The format of the file is:
      * An entry is a line of `frameworkName: file.proto, dir/file2.proto`.
      * Comments start with `#`.
      * A comment can go on a line after an entry.
        (i.e. - `frameworkName: file.proto # comment`)

    Any number of files can be listed for a framework, just separate them with
    commas.

    There can be multiple lines listing the same frameworkName incase it has a
    lot of proto files included in it; and having multiple lines makes things
    easier to read.

Contributing
------------

Please make updates to the tests along with changes. If just changing the
runtime, the Xcode projects can be used to build and run tests. If your change
also requires changes to the generated code,
`objectivec/DevTools/full_mac_build.sh` can be used to easily rebuild and test
changes. Passing `-h` to the script will show the addition options that could
be useful.

Documentation
-------------

The complete documentation for Protocol Buffers is available via the
web at:

    https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/

Commit message:

[third_party] Uprev protobuf to v3.13.0.1+
Followed process in //third_party/protobuf/README.chromium
Highlights:
* Some protobuf APIs started being deprecated. Moved sources in
//chromecast and //components to start using the non-deprecated
versions.
* Removed most of the patches and updated the ones that are still
needed. No new patches.
* //components/subresource_filter/core/common/unindexed_ruleset.h:
HadError is not const anymore.

Size increase is caused by protobuf mainlining 2
functions to Serialize and Parse inside each *pb.cc file. This new
methods are now the way protobuf serializes and deserializes messages
so no way to avoid those without substantially changing protobuf
internals.

Binary-Size: Unavoidable. Increase intrinsic to new protobuf.
Bug: 1144985
Change-Id: I23ce43f07da82fdda60575934a4b039200164f48
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2518036
Commit-Queue: Andres Medina <medinaandres@chromium.org>
Auto-Submit: Andres Medina <medinaandres@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Colin Blundell <blundell@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Peter Kasting <pkasting@chromium.org>
Reviewed-by: Luke Halliwell (slow) <halliwell@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#828263}
GitOrigin-RevId: a3bfafb151b195006c7f4674b86944804ff6cbf9

protobuf/objectivec/README.md, after:

Protocol Buffers - Google's data interchange format
===================================================

[![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_cocoapods_integration.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_cocoapods_integration%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_ios_debug.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_ios_debug%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_ios_release.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_ios_release%2Fcontinuous) [![Build status](https://storage.googleapis.com/protobuf-kokoro-results/status-badge/macos-objectivec_osx.png)](https://fusion.corp.google.com/projectanalysis/current/KOKORO/prod:protobuf%2Fgithub%2Fmaster%2Fmacos%2Fobjectivec_osx%2Fcontinuous)

Copyright 2008 Google Inc.

This directory contains the Objective C Protocol Buffers runtime library.

Requirements
------------

The Objective C implementation requires:

- Objective C 2.0 Runtime (32bit & 64bit iOS, 64bit OS X).
- Xcode 10.3 (or later).
- The library code does *not* use ARC (for performance reasons), but it all can
  be called from ARC code.

Installation
------------

The distribution pulled from github includes the sources for both the
compiler (protoc) and the runtime (this directory). After cloning the distribution
and needed submodules ([see the src directory's README](../src/README.md)),
to build the compiler and run the runtime tests, you can use:

     $ objectivec/DevTools/full_mac_build.sh

This will generate the `src/protoc` binary.

Building
--------

There are two ways to include the Runtime sources in your project:

Add `objectivec/*.h`, `objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.h`, and
`objectivec/GPBProtocolBuffers.m` to your project.

*or*

Add `objectivec/*.h`, `objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.h`,
`objectivec/google/protobuf/*.pbobjc.m`, and `objectivec/*.m` except for
`objectivec/GPBProtocolBuffers.m` to your project.


If the target is using ARC, remember to turn off ARC (`-fno-objc-arc`) for the
`.m` files.

The files generated by `protoc` for the `*.proto` files (`*.pbobjc.h` and
`*.pbobjc.m`) are then also added to the target.

Usage
-----

The objects generated for messages should work like any other Objective C
object. They are mutable objects, but if you don't change them, they are safe
to share between threads (similar to passing an NSMutableDictionary between
threads/queues; as long as no one mutates it, things are fine).

There are a few behaviors worth calling out:

A property that is type NSString\* will never return nil. If the value is
unset, it will return an empty string (@""). This is inpart to align things
with the Protocol Buffers spec which says the default for strings is an empty
string, but also so you can always safely pass them to isEqual:/compare:, etc.
and have deterministic results.

A property that is type NSData\* also won't return nil, it will return an empty
data ([NSData data]). The reasoning is the same as for NSString not returning
nil.

A property that is another GPBMessage class also will not return nil. If the
field wasn't already set, you will get a instance of the correct class. This
instance will be a temporary instance unless you mutate it, at which point it
will be attached to its parent object. We call this pattern *autocreators*.
Similar to NSString and NSData properties it makes things a little safer when
using them with isEqual:/etc.; but more importantly, this allows you to write
code that uses Objective C's property dot notation to walk into nested objects
and access and/or assign things without having to check that they are not nil
and create them each step along the way. You can write this:

```
- (void)updateRecord:(MyMessage *)msg {
  ...
  // Note: You don't have to check subMessage and otherMessage for nil and
  // alloc/init/assign them back along the way.
  msg.subMessage.otherMessage.lastName = @"Smith";
  ...
}
```

If you want to check if a GPBMessage property is present, there is always as
`has\[NAME\]` property to go with the main property to check if it is set.

A property that is of an Array or Dictionary type also provides *autocreator*
behavior and will never return nil. This provides all the same benefits you
see for the message properties. Again, you can write:

```
- (void)updateRecord:(MyMessage *)msg {
  ...
  // Note: Just like above, you don't have to check subMessage and otherMessage
  // for nil and alloc/init/assign them back along the way. You also don't have
  // to create the siblingsArray, you can safely just append to it.
  [msg.subMessage.otherMessage.siblingsArray addObject:@"Pat"];
  ...
}
```

If you are inspecting a message you got from some other place (server, disk,
etc), you may want to check if the Array or Dictionary has entries without
causing it to be created for you. For this, there is always a `\[NAME\]_Count`
property also provided that can return zero or the real count, but won't trigger
the creation.

For primitive type fields (ints, floats, bools, enum) in messages defined in a
`.proto` file that use *proto2* syntax there are conceptual differences between
having an *explicit* and *default* value. You can always get the value of the
property. In the case that it hasn't been set you will get the default. In
cases where you need to know whether it was set explicitly or you are just
getting the default, you can use the `has\[NAME\]` property. If the value has
been set, and you want to clear it, you can set the `has\[NAME\]` to `NO`.
*proto3* syntax messages do away with this concept, thus the default values are
never included when the message is encoded.

The Objective C classes/enums can be used from Swift code.

Objective C Generator Proto File Options
----------------------------------------

**objc_class_prefix=\<prefix\>** (no default)

Since Objective C uses a global namespace for all of its classes, there can
be collisions. This option provides a prefix that will be added to the Enums
and Objects (for messages) generated from the proto. Convention is to base
the prefix on the package the proto is in.

Objective C Generator `protoc` Options
--------------------------------------

When generating Objective C code, `protoc` supports a `--objc_opt` argument; the
argument is comma-delimited name/value pairs (_key=value,key2=value2_). The
_keys_ are used to change the behavior during generation. The currently
supported keys are:

  * `generate_for_named_framework`: The `value` used for this key will be used
    when generating the `#import` statements in the generated code.  Instead
    of being plain `#import "some/path/file.pbobjc.h"` lines, they will be
    framework based, i.e. - `#import <VALUE/file.pbobjc.h>`.

    _NOTE:_ If this is used with `named_framework_to_proto_path_mappings_path`,
    then this is effectively the _default_ to use for everything that wasn't
    mapped by the other.

  * `named_framework_to_proto_path_mappings_path`: The `value` used for this key
    is a path to a file containing the listing of framework names and proto
    files. The generator uses this to decide if another proto file referenced
    should use a framework style import vs. a user level import
    (`#import <FRAMEWORK/file.pbobjc.h>` vs `#import "dir/file.pbobjc.h"`).

    The format of the file is:
      * An entry is a line of `frameworkName: file.proto, dir/file2.proto`.
      * Comments start with `#`.
      * A comment can go on a line after an entry.
        (i.e. - `frameworkName: file.proto # comment`)

    Any number of files can be listed for a framework, just separate them with
    commas.

    There can be multiple lines listing the same frameworkName in case it has a
    lot of proto files included in it; and having multiple lines makes things
    easier to read.

  * `runtime_import_prefix`: The `value` used for this key to be used as a
    prefix on `#import`s of runtime provided headers in the generated files.
    When integrating ObjC protos into a build system, this can be used to avoid
    having to add the runtime directory to the header search path since the
    generate `#import` will be more complete.

Contributing
------------

Please make updates to the tests along with changes. If just changing the
runtime, the Xcode projects can be used to build and run tests. If your change
also requires changes to the generated code,
`objectivec/DevTools/full_mac_build.sh` can be used to easily rebuild and test
changes. Passing `-h` to the script will show the addition options that could
be useful.

Documentation
-------------

The complete documentation for Protocol Buffers is available via the
web at:

    https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/
