blink/common/feature_policy/README.md, before:

## Feature Policy Guide
### How to add a new feature to feature policy

Feature policy (see [spec](https://wicg.github.io/feature-policy/)) is a
mechanism that allows developers to selectively enable and disable various
[browser features and
APIs](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/feature_policy.mojom)
(e.g, "vibrate", "fullscreen", "usb", etc.). A feature policy can be defined
via a HTTP header and/or an iframe "allow" attribute.

Below is an example of a header policy (note that the header should be kept in
one line, split into multiple for clarity reasons):

    Feature-Policy: vibrate 'none'; geolocation 'self' https://example.com; camera *


- `vibrate` is disabled for all browsing contexts;
- `geolocation` is disabled for all browsing contexts except for its own
  origin and those whose origin is "https://example.com";
- `camera` is enabled for all browsing contexts.

Below is an example of a container policy:

    <iframe allowpaymentrequest allow='vibrate; fullscreen'></iframe>

OR

    <iframe allowpaymentrequest allow="vibrate 'src'; fullscreen 'src'"></iframe>


- `payment` is enabled (via `allowpaymentrequest`) on all browsing contexts
 within the iframe;
- `vibrate` and `fullscreen` are enabled on the origin of the URL of the
  iframe's `src` attribute.

Combined with a header policy and a container policy, [inherited
policy](https://wicg.github.io/feature-policy/#inherited-policy) defines the
availability of a feature.
See more details for how to [define an inherited policy for
feature](https://wicg.github.io/feature-policy/#define-inherited-policy)

#### Adding a new feature to feature policy
A step-to-step guide with examples.

##### Shipping features behind a flag
If the additional feature is unshipped, or if the correct behaviour with feature
policy is undetermined, consider shipping the feature behind a runtime-enabled feature.

##### Define new feature
1. Feature policy features are defined in
`third_party/blink/renderer/core/feature_policy/feature_policy_features.json5`. Add the new feature,
placing any runtime-enabled feature or origin trial dependencies in its "depends_on" field as
described in the file's comments.

2. Append the new feature enum with a brief description as well in
`third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/feature_policy_feature.mojom`

##### Integrate the feature behaviour with feature policy
1. The most common way to check if features are enabled is `ExecutionContext::IsFeatureEnabled`.

2. Examples:
- `vibrate`: `NavigatorVibration::vibrate()`
- `payment`: `AllowedToUsePaymentRequest()`
- `usb`: `USB::getDevices()`

##### Write web-platform-tests
To test the new feature with feature policy, refer to
`third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/feature-policy/README.md` for
instructions on how to use the feature policy test framework.

## Document Policy Guide
### How to add a new feature to document policy

Document Policy (see [spec](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-permissions-policy/document-policy.html)) is a similar mechanism to Feature Policy. It is intended
to cover those kinds of features which don't involve delegation of permission to trusted origins; features which are more about configuring a document, or removing features (sandboxing) from a document or a frame. Document Policy can only be set through HTTP header, and will not inherit to subframes.

Example HTTP header: `Document-Policy: force-load-at-top=?0, lossy-images-max-bpp=1.0`

- `force-load-at-top` is set to boolean value false (`?0` in [structured header syntax](https://httpwg.org/http-extensions/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure.html)), i.e. the
 feature is disallowed in current document;
- `lossy-images-max-bpp` is set to 1.0, i.e. lossy image format (e.g. jpeg) images with
byte per pixel rate higher than 1.0 will be blocked.


#### Adding a new feature to document policy

##### Shipping features behind a flag
If the additional feature is unshipped, or if the correct behaviour with document
policy is undetermined, consider shipping the feature behind a runtime-enabled feature.

##### Define new feature
1. Document policy features are defined in
`third_party/blink/renderer/core/feature_policy/document_policy_features.json5`. Add the new feature,
placing any runtime-enabled feature or origin trial dependencies in its "depends_on" field as
described in the file's comments.

2. Append the new feature enum with a brief description as well in
`third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/document_policy_feature.mojom`

##### Integrate the feature behaviour with document policy
The most common way to check if features are enabled is `ExecutionContext::IsFeatureEnabled`.

##### Write web-platform-tests
Please add new tests to `third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/document-policy/`.

#### Contacts
For more questions, please feel free to reach out to:
iclelland@chromium.org
chenleihu@google.com
(Emerita: loonybear@)

Commit message:

[Permissions Policy] Refresh existing feature policy README
With the rename of permissions policy to feature policy. The
README file needs an update.

Bug: 1123116
Change-Id: Ia1ea40d94fcf3ef3b1f678f66fe6df8f5f0410ae
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2382208
Commit-Queue: Charlie Hu <chenleihu@google.com>
Reviewed-by: Ian Clelland <iclelland@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#806228}
GitOrigin-RevId: 0f451a96b4095b6568d88e5fe81455097b87758f

blink/common/feature_policy/README.md, after:

## Permissions Policy Guide (Previously Feature Policy)
Permissions policy is the new name for feature policy with a new HTTP header which uses [structured header](https://httpwg.org/http-extensions/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure.html) syntax. Code currently under feature_policy directory in chromium repository has not been renamed yet.

### How to add a new feature to permissions poy

Permissions policy (see [spec](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-permissions-policy/)) is a
mechanism that allows developers to selectively enable and disable various
[browser features an
APIs](https://cs.chromium.org/chromium/src/third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/feature_policy.mojom)
(e.g, "vibrate", "fullscreen", "usb", etc.). A permissions policy can be defined
via a HTTP header and/or an iframe "allow" attribute.

Below is an example of a header policy (note that the header should be kept in
one line, split into multiple for clarity reasons):

    Permissions-Policy: vibrate=(), geolocation=(self https://example.com), camera=*

- `vibrate` is disabled for all browsing contexts;
- `geolocation` is disabled for all browsing contexts except for its own
  origin and those whose origin is "https://example.com";
- `camera` is enabled for all browsing contexts.

Below is an example of a container policy:

    <iframe allowpaymentrequest allow='vibrate; fullscreen'></iframe>

OR

    <iframe allowpaymentrequest allow="vibrate 'src'; fullscreen 'src'"></iframe>


- `payment` is enabled (via `allowpaymentrequest`) on all browsing contexts
 within the iframe;
- `vibrate` and `fullscreen` are enabled on the origin of the URL of the
  iframe's `src` attribute.

Combined with a header policy and a container policy, [inherited
policy](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-permissions-policy/#inherited-policy) defines the
availability of a feature.
See more details for how to [define an inherited policy for
feature](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-permissions-policy/#define-inherited-policy)

#### Adding a new feature to permissions policy
A step-to-step guide with examples.

##### Shipping features behind a flag
If the additional feature is unshipped, or if the correct behaviour with feature
policy is undetermined, consider shipping the feature behind a runtime-enabled feature.

##### Define new feature
1. Permissions policy features are defined in
`third_party/blink/renderer/core/feature_policy/feature_policy_features.json5`. Add the new feature,
placing any runtime-enabled feature or origin trial dependencies in its "depends_on" field as
described in the file's comments.

2. Append the new feature enum with a brief description as well in
`third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/feature_policy_feature.mojom`

##### Integrate the feature behaviour with permissions policy
1. The most common way to check if features are enabled is `ExecutionContext::IsFeatureEnabled`.

2. Examples:
- `vibrate`: `NavigatorVibration::vibrate()`
- `payment`: `AllowedToUsePaymentRequest()`
- `usb`: `USB::getDevices()`

##### Write web-platform-tests
To test the new feature with permissions policy, refer to
`third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/feature-policy/README.md` for
instructions on how to use the permissions policy test framework.

## Document Policy Guide
### How to add a new feature to document policy

Document Policy (see [spec](https://w3c.github.io/webappsec-permissions-policy/document-policy.html)) is a similar mechanism to Feature Policy. It is intended

to cover those kinds of features which don't involve delegation of permission to trusted origins; features which are more about configuring a document, or removing features (sandboxing) from a document or a frame. Document Policy can only be set through HTTP header, and will not inherit to subframes.

Example HTTP header: `Document-Policy: force-load-at-top=?0, lossy-images-max-bpp=1.0`

- `force-load-at-top` is set to boolean value false (`?0` in [structured header syntax](https://httpwg.org/http-extensions/draft-ietf-httpbis-header-structure.html)), i.e. the
 feature is disallowed in current document;
- `lossy-images-max-bpp` is set to 1.0, i.e. lossy image format (e.g. jpeg) images with
byte per pixel rate higher than 1.0 will be blocked.


#### Adding a new feature to document policy

##### Shipping features behind a flag
If the additional feature is unshipped, or if the correct behaviour with document
policy is undetermined, consider shipping the feature behind a runtime-enabled feature.

##### Define new feature
1. Document policy features are defined in
`third_party/blink/renderer/core/feature_policy/document_policy_features.json5`. Add the new feature,
placing any runtime-enabled feature or origin trial dependencies in its "depends_on" field as
described in the file's comments.

2. Append the new feature enum with a brief description as well in
`third_party/blink/public/mojom/feature_policy/document_policy_feature.mojom`

##### Integrate the feature behaviour with document policy
The most common way to check if features are enabled is `ExecutionContext::IsFeatureEnabled`.

##### Write web-platform-tests
Please add new tests to `third_party/blink/web_tests/external/wpt/document-policy/`.

#### Contacts
For more questions, please feel free to reach out to:
iclelland@chromium.org
chenleihu@google.com
(Emerita: loonybear@)
