blink/web_tests/external/wpt/docs/writing-tests/testdriver.md, before:

# testdriver.js Automation

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs. Outside of automation
contexts, it allows human operators to provide expected input
manually (for operations which may be described in simple terms).

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js](testharness)
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### Actions
Usage:
```
let actions = new test_driver.Actions()
   .action1()
   .action2();
actions.send()
```

Test authors are encouraged to use the builder API to generate the sequence of actions. The builder
API can be accessed via the `new test_driver.Actions()` object, and actions are defined in [testdriver-actions.js](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/resources/testdriver-actions.js)

The `actions.send()` function causes the sequence of actions to be sent to the browser. It is based on the [WebDriver API](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#actions).
The action can be a keyboard action, a pointer action or a pause. It returns a promise that
resolves after the actions have been sent, or rejects if an error was thrown.


Example:

```js
let text_box = document.getElementById("text");

let actions = new test_driver.Actions()
    .pointerMove(0, 0, {origin: text_box})
    .pointerDown()
    .pointerUp()
    .addTick()
    .keyDown("p")
    .keyUp("p");

actions.send();
```

Calling into `send()` is going to dispatch the action sequence (via `test_driver.action_sequence`) and also returns a promise which should be handled however is appropriate in the test. The other functions in the `Actions()` object are going to modify the state of the object by adding a new action in the sequence and returning the same object. So the functions can be easily chained, as shown in the example above. Here is a list of helper functions in the `Actions` class:

```
pointerDown: Create a pointerDown event for the current default pointer source
pointerUp: Create a pointerUp event for the current default pointer source
pointerMove: Create a move event for the current default pointer source
keyDown: Create a keyDown event for the current default key source
keyUp: Create a keyUp event for the current default key source
pause: Add a pause to the current tick
addTick: Insert a new actions tick
setPointer: Set the current default pointer source (By detault the pointerType is mouse)
addPointer: Add a new pointer input source with the given name
setKeyboard: Set the current default key source
addKeyboard: Add a new key input source with the given name
```

### bless

Usage: `test_driver.bless(intent, action)`
 * _intent_: a string describing the motivation for this invocation
 * _action_: an optional function

This function simulates [activation][activation], allowing tests to
perform privileged operations that require user interaction. For
example, sandboxed iframes with
`allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` may only navigate their
parent's browsing context under these circumstances. The _intent_
string is presented to human operators when the test is not run in
automation.

This method returns a promise which is resolved with the result of
invoking the _action_ function. If no such function is provided, the
promise is resolved with the value `undefined`.

Example:

```js
var mediaElement = document.createElement('video');

test_driver.bless('initiate media playback', function () {
  mediaElement.play();
});
```

### click

Usage: `test_driver.click(element)`
 * _element_: a DOM Element object

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a promise that resolves after the
click has occurred or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### send_keys

Usage: `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
 * _element_: a DOM Element object
 * _keys_: string to send to the element

This function causes the string _keys_ to be sent to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a promise that resolves
after the keys have been sent, or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

Note that if the element that the keys need to be sent to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

[activation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#activation

### set_permission

Usage: `test_driver.set_permission(descriptor, state, one_realm)`
 * _descriptor_: a
   [PermissionDescriptor](https://w3c.github.io/permissions/#dictdef-permissiondescriptor)
   or derived object
 * _state_: a
   [PermissionState](https://w3c.github.io/permissions/#enumdef-permissionstate)
   value
 * _one_realm_: a boolean that indicates whether the permission settings
   apply to only one realm

This function causes permission requests and queries for the status of a
certain permission type (e.g. "push", or "background-fetch") to always
return _state_. It returns a promise that resolves after the permission has
been set to be overridden with _state_.

Example:

``` js
await test_driver.set_permission({ name: "background-fetch" }, "denied");
await test_driver.set_permission({ name: "push", userVisibleOnly: true }, "granted", true);
```

Commit message:

Import wpt@fdee354c5c9c5e373939bdd75a549a96232bc349
Using wpt-import in Chromium 8c7f5c3e2d04bb479aad1a3acf8f01f86b1712c2.
With Chromium commits locally applied on WPT:
8f02a3807e "Use allow attribute for delegation in web serial WPT"
c1a7d15acb "[LayoutNG] Multicol baseline propagation support."
f30daabbaa "[COOP] access reporting: test with redirects."
1117bd9f0c "Revert "FontAccess: Sort fonts in lexicographical order""

Note to sheriffs: This CL imports external tests and adds
expectations for those tests; if this CL is large and causes
a few new failures, please fix the failures by adding new
lines to TestExpectations rather than reverting. See:
https://chromium.googlesource.com/chromium/src/+/master/docs/testing/web_platform_tests.md

Directory owners for changes in this CL:
foolip@chromium.org, lpz@chromium.org, robertma@chromium.org:
  external/wpt/tools
foolip@chromium.org, robertma@chromium.org, smcgruer@chromium.org:
  external/wpt/infrastructure
jsbell@chromium.org:
  external/wpt/resources

NOAUTOREVERT=true
TBR=foolip@google.com

No-Export: true
Change-Id: I33f7f5899a7601d6c6d91ed89976a6adc62999f0
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2430506
Reviewed-by: WPT Autoroller <wpt-autoroller@chops-service-accounts.iam.gserviceaccount.com>
Commit-Queue: WPT Autoroller <wpt-autoroller@chops-service-accounts.iam.gserviceaccount.com>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#810595}
GitOrigin-RevId: 2c4511c94bbaf829568a3f503c93a2dc43235f04

blink/web_tests/external/wpt/docs/writing-tests/testdriver.md, after:

# testdriver.js Automation

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs. Outside of automation
contexts, it allows human operators to provide expected input
manually (for operations which may be described in simple terms).

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js](testharness)
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### Actions
Usage:
```
let actions = new test_driver.Actions()
   .action1()
   .action2();
actions.send()
```

Test authors are encouraged to use the builder API to generate the sequence of actions. The builder
API can be accessed via the `new test_driver.Actions()` object, and actions are defined in [testdriver-actions.js](https://github.com/web-platform-tests/wpt/blob/master/resources/testdriver-actions.js)

The `actions.send()` function causes the sequence of actions to be sent to the browser. It is based on the [WebDriver API](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#actions).
The action can be a keyboard action, a pointer action or a pause. It returns a promise that
resolves after the actions have been sent, or rejects if an error was thrown.


Example:

```js
let text_box = document.getElementById("text");

let actions = new test_driver.Actions()
    .pointerMove(0, 0, {origin: text_box})
    .pointerDown()
    .pointerUp()
    .addTick()
    .keyDown("p")
    .keyUp("p");

actions.send();
```

Calling into `send()` is going to dispatch the action sequence (via `test_driver.action_sequence`) and also returns a promise which should be handled however is appropriate in the test. The other functions in the `Actions()` object are going to modify the state of the object by adding a new action in the sequence and returning the same object. So the functions can be easily chained, as shown in the example above. Here is a list of helper functions in the `Actions` class:

```
pointerDown: Create a pointerDown event for the current default pointer source
pointerUp: Create a pointerUp event for the current default pointer source
pointerMove: Create a move event for the current default pointer source
keyDown: Create a keyDown event for the current default key source
keyUp: Create a keyUp event for the current default key source
pause: Add a pause to the current tick
addTick: Insert a new actions tick
setPointer: Set the current default pointer source (By detault the pointerType is mouse)
addPointer: Add a new pointer input source with the given name
setKeyboard: Set the current default key source
addKeyboard: Add a new key input source with the given name
```

This works with elements in other frames/windows as long as they are
same-origin with the test, and the test does not depend on the
window.name property remaining unset on the target window.

### bless

Usage: `test_driver.bless(intent, action)`
 * _intent_: a string describing the motivation for this invocation
 * _action_: an optional function

This function simulates [activation][activation], allowing tests to
perform privileged operations that require user interaction. For
example, sandboxed iframes with
`allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` may only navigate their
parent's browsing context under these circumstances. The _intent_
string is presented to human operators when the test is not run in
automation.

This method returns a promise which is resolved with the result of
invoking the _action_ function. If no such function is provided, the
promise is resolved with the value `undefined`.

Example:

```js
var mediaElement = document.createElement('video');

test_driver.bless('initiate media playback', function () {
  mediaElement.play();
});
```

### click

Usage: `test_driver.click(element)`
 * _element_: a DOM Element object

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a promise that resolves after the
click has occurred or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

This works with elements in other frames/windows as long as they are
same-origin with the test, and the test does not depend on the
window.name property remaining unset on the target window.

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### send_keys

Usage: `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
 * _element_: a DOM Element object
 * _keys_: string to send to the element

This function causes the string _keys_ to be sent to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a promise that resolves
after the keys have been sent, or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

This works with elements in other frames/windows as long as they are
same-origin with the test, and the test does not depend on the
window.name property remaining unset on the target window.

Note that if the element that the keys need to be sent to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

[activation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#activation

### set_permission

Usage: `test_driver.set_permission(descriptor, state, one_realm)`
 * _descriptor_: a
   [PermissionDescriptor](https://w3c.github.io/permissions/#dictdef-permissiondescriptor)
   or derived object
 * _state_: a
   [PermissionState](https://w3c.github.io/permissions/#enumdef-permissionstate)
   value
 * _one_realm_: a boolean that indicates whether the permission settings
   apply to only one realm

This function causes permission requests and queries for the status of a
certain permission type (e.g. "push", or "background-fetch") to always
return _state_. It returns a promise that resolves after the permission has
been set to be overridden with _state_.

Example:

``` js
await test_driver.set_permission({ name: "background-fetch" }, "denied");
await test_driver.set_permission({ name: "push", userVisibleOnly: true }, "granted", true);
```
