woff2/README.md, before:

﻿This is a README for the font compression reference code. There are several
compression related modules in this repository.

brotli/ contains reference code for the Brotli byte-level compression
algorithm. Note that it is licensed under the MIT license.

src/ contains the C++ code for compressing and decompressing fonts.

# Build & Run

This document documents how to run the compression reference code. At this
writing, the code, while it is intended to produce a bytestream that can be
reconstructed into a working font, the reference decompression code is not
done, and the exact format of that bytestream is subject to change.

The build process depends on the g++ compiler.

## Build

On a standard Unix-style environment:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/google/woff2.git
cd woff2
make clean all
```

## Run

Ensure the binaries from the build process are in your $PATH, then:

```
woff2_compress myfont.ttf
woff2_decompress myfont.woff2
```

# References

http://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF2/
http://www.w3.org/Submission/MTX/

Also please refer to documents (currently Google Docs):

WOFF Ultra Condensed file format: proposals and discussion of wire format
issues (PDF is in docs/ directory)

WIFF Ultra Condensed: more discussion of results and compression techniques.
This tool was used to prepare the data in that document.

Commit message:

Roll WOFF2 1bccf208bc..a0d0ed7da2
This includes a fix for integer overflow, and relicensing to MIT.

Bug: 1135594
Change-Id: Ia1ee98441f240a9e073cb05408801581144bbd0a
Reviewed-on: https://chromium-review.googlesource.com/c/chromium/src/+/2465555
Reviewed-by: Kenichi Ishibashi <bashi@chromium.org>
Commit-Queue: Kunihiko Sakamoto <ksakamoto@chromium.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/master@{#817815}
GitOrigin-RevId: 86d1a1ec16010f637224bdc9d0fda7dff5b68aef

woff2/README.md, after:

﻿This is a README for the font compression reference code. There are several
compression related modules in this repository.

brotli/ contains reference code for the Brotli byte-level compression
algorithm. Note that it is licensed under the MIT license.

src/ contains the C++ code for compressing and decompressing fonts.

# Build & Run

This document documents how to run the compression reference code. At this
writing, the code, while it is intended to produce a bytestream that can be
reconstructed into a working font, the reference decompression code is not
done, and the exact format of that bytestream is subject to change.

The build process depends on the g++ compiler.

## Build

On a standard Unix-style environment:

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/google/woff2.git
cd woff2
make clean all
```

Alternatively, if Brotli is already installed on your system you can use CMake
to build executables and libraries:

```
git clone https://github.com/google/woff2.git
cd woff2
mkdir out
cd out
cmake ..
make
make install
```

By default, shared libraries are built. To use static linkage, do:

```
cd woff2
mkdir out-static
cmake -DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS=OFF ..
make
make install
```

## Run

Ensure the binaries from the build process are in your $PATH, then:

```
woff2_compress myfont.ttf
woff2_decompress myfont.woff2
```

# References

http://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF2/
http://www.w3.org/Submission/MTX/

Also please refer to documents (currently Google Docs):

WOFF Ultra Condensed file format: proposals and discussion of wire format
issues (PDF is in docs/ directory)

WIFF Ultra Condensed: more discussion of results and compression techniques.
This tool was used to prepare the data in that document.
